PLANS as of Dec 23, 2020

Currently, I plan to find solutions to the following issues:

* Character sets: One one hand we like to use characters from local languages, 
on the other hand, we only want to use ASCII characters for searches. I plan 
to look into character sets and functions that translate between them.

* Pre-processing to optimize searches. I just implemented automatic cross-linking 
of cave branches that are connected with one another. This is done on-the-fly 
in a Python program before a search is executed, but this is not ideal for 
larger databases or for semi-public databases that can be searched but not 
downloaded as a whole. Perhaps the solution is to introduce an augmented XML 
label set, where the cross-linking is already performed and stored in additional
XML elements.

* Non-unique cave-id for systems: Sometimes a system inherits its cave-id from 
a branch, for example Kolowrathöhle and the Gamslöcher-Kolowrat-Höhlensystem 
both have cadastre number 1339/1, because that number of is based on entrances. 
I will have to nudge the standard and programs to deal with non-unique cave ids.

* Systems of systems: Feuertalhöhle is part of the Feuertalsystem, which is 
part of the Schönberg cavesystem. There is no reason cross-linking shouldn't
work here, but I have to think about whether a branch can connect to a system
more than one level of hierarchy up, and so on.



DONE

* Earlier in December, I decided to use a hash function to create unique record
identifiers. I implemented this using the MD5 hashlib function in Python. As a
result, records can now be linked and cross-linked.

* The cave types recommended by UISIC made limited sense to me, so I took the
liberty to revise that list of options. The paper by Ek (2001) was very helpful
in this regard. First, I realized there is no complete uniformly accepted
classification of caves. Second, a classification criterion needs to be chosen;
I chose that criterion to be the formation process. Classification by morphology 
would be helpful too, but I could not find a good one in the literature. I have 
some thoughts/notes on cave types, if anyone is interested to discuss them.
(On that note, the term "rock shelter" is phenomenally ambiguous. It's a class
based on formation process, but also used for a class based on morphology. And
for someone who isn't familiar with either definition, it holds yet another
meaning.)

* ...


-Norbert
